Slack Closure - Announcement (#7307)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/blog/slack-closure.md

---
date: 2023-20-12
title: "Why we're closing our public Slack community"
rootPage: /blog
sidebar: Blog
showTitle: true
hideAnchor: true
category: CEO diaries
author: ["joe-martin"]
featuredImage: ../images/blog/posthog-company-culture-blog.png
featuredImageType: full
---

One of the great things about PostHog being open source is that we’ve grown a vibrant community around the project. Since launch we’ve accepted code from over 500 contributors and swapped ideas with thousands of users in our public Slack group. 

Now though, we’ve decided to close our public Slack group and focus efforts elsewhere. In this post I’ll explain why we’re doing this, and what comes next for the PostHog community. 

> > **Tl;dr:** We’re closing the Slack group on XX/XX/XX and inviting members to join us in the new [PostHog Community](/questions) instead. This decision only impacts the public Slack group, not the private Slack channels for users spending over $2,000 per month.

Author: ```suggestion
> **Tl;dr:** We’re closing the Slack group on XX/XX/XX and inviting members to join us in the thriving [PostHog Community](/questions) instead, where XX users have already asked XX questions in the last six months. This decision only impacts the public Slack group, not the private Slack channels for users spending over $2,000 per month.
```

## Why are we closing the PostHog Slack?

> PostHog has grown incredibly fast over the past four years and while that has ensured the public Slack group has remained a busy place, we think it’s arguably become _too_ busy. We often find users asking questions that have already been answered in previous chats, or re-asking unanswered questions if they drift too far back in the chat history. 

Reviewer: You shared graphs showing that actually the opposite was happening though and messages are generally declining?

Author: I don't think these two things are mutually exclusive. The number of messages is declining, but the number of messages is _still_ too much because we don't actively support these users (and the other points mentioned).

This is a limitation of Slack itself. Message history disappears too quickly and search engines can’t index the chat, so everything which happens is too quickly lost.

Over time we’ve tried a number of things to try and offset this, such as reorganizing channels or adding integrations to impose order. We even [built our own AI bot](/blog/aruba-hackathon#maxai-our-friendly-posthog-support-ai) which would answer questions automatically!

We’ve also investigated moving to a paid plan, but the cheapest option is $7.25 USD per user per month. That’s a prohibitive cost for a channel with over 5,000 users and climbing, and would only increase the history to 30 days. 

> ## Where will the community go?

Reviewer: Worth sharing that actually /questions is pretty vibrant and has lots of engagement - it's not just starting from scratch? (e.g. X people are using and have answered Y questions etc.)

Reviewer: Ha sorry, saw you put this later - but worth opening with it maybe

In order to ensure users can get the best possible experience, we’ve built our [own community platform](/questions) directly into PostHog.com. You can ask and answer questions, select preferred solutions, filter by topic, participate in AMAs, and search thoroughly to find the information you need. 

We strongly recommend all users [create a community account](/questions). You can, of course, continue to use the in-app support for reporting bugs, giving feedback, or asking for support. We’ll also continue to operate the dedicated Slack channels for users who spend over $2,000 per month. 

> In the future we plan to add even more to the PostHog community, including the ability to vote on questions and unlock unique benefits — but already it offers a better alternative to the public Slack group. More than XXX users have asked over XXX questions in the last six months of us building it!

Reviewer: 'unlock unique benefits' - if we can't be specific, prob leave out?

Author: ```suggestion
In the future we plan to add even more to the PostHog community, including the ability to vote on questions — but already it offers a better alternative to the public Slack group. More than XXX users have asked over XXX questions in the last six months of us building it!
```

---
date: 2023-20-12
title: "We're building a better PostHog community by closing our public Slack"
rootPage: /blog
sidebar: Blog
showTitle: true
hideAnchor: true

> category: CEO diaries

Author: ```suggestion
category: Product updates
```

author: ["joe-martin"]
featuredImage: ../images/blog/posthog-company-culture-blog.png
featuredImageType: full
---

One of the great things about being open source is that we’ve grown a vibrant community around the project. Since launch we’ve accepted code from over 500 contributors and swapped ideas with thousands of users in our public Slack group. 

> Now though, we’re closing our public Slack group in order to create a better, stronger, and more helpful PostHog community here on our site. In this post I’ll explain why we’re doing this, and what comes next. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now though, we’re closing our public Slack group to create a better, stronger, and more helpful PostHog community here on our site. In this post, I’ll explain why we’re doing this, and what comes next. 
```

> > **Tl;dr:** We’re closing the Slack group on XX/XX/XX and inviting members to join us on the [PostHog community forum](/questions) instead, where over 1,500 users have already started asking questions. This decision only impacts the public Slack group, not the private Slack channels for users who pay for additional support.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> **TL;DR:** We’re closing the Slack group on XX/XX/XX and inviting members to join us on the [PostHog community forum](/questions) instead, where over 1,500 users have already started asking questions. This decision only impacts the public Slack group, not the private Slack channels for users who pay for additional support.
```

## Why we're changing the way we do community

PostHog has grown incredibly fast over the last four years, and throughout that time the public Slack group has been the central hub of our community. It's been a place where we chat to users, listen to feature requests, answer questions, and solicit feedback. 

> However, with over 5,000 members in the community, it's become hard to keep up with the conversations. Messages quickly disappear from the chat history and content isn't indexed by Google, which makes it a particularly bad platform for community support. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
However, with over 5,000 members in the community, it's become hard to keep up with the conversations. Messages quickly disappear from the chat history, it is disconnected from our main support flow, and content isn't indexed by Google, which makes it a particularly bad platform for community support. 
```

We've explored a few things to fix this, including joining a paid plan ($7.25+ per user, per month) and [building our own AI bot](/blog/aruba-hackathon#maxai-our-friendly-posthog-support-ai), but earlier this year we realized a new approach was needed.

So, we decided to build something better. 

## Introducing the PostHog community forum

> <iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/blqgFrIaWY0?si=gSj1eNrGQ8l0ANlw" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/blqgFrIaWY0?si=gSj1eNrGQ8l0ANlw" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe>
```

The new forums provide a dedicated area where you can post questions for both the PostHog team and the wider community. Anyone can respond, and answers can be selected as the preferred solution to help guide other users too. All of this content lives permanently on our website and is visible to search engines, which is enough on its own to make the forums a better place for seeking community support.

We've also integrated the forum into other parts of the site. You can, for example, post questions when browsing the PostHog docs, and we'll automatically aggregate questions into sortable categories. This is especially helpful if you're trying something new and an existing explanation isn't clear enough for you. 

Profiles are also a big part of the forum; a place where you can add info, track discussions you're involved in, and display awards earned through the community. You can even open your profile to function as an Ask Me Anything (AMA) - something [James](https://posthog.com/community/profiles/71), [Cory](https://posthog.com/community/profiles/2), and [myself](https://posthog.com/community/profiles/59) have already done.

> > Ready to join the community? You can now [login using your PostHog account](/questions)! 

Author: It is right now, but we're going to merge them before Jan and hold this back until then.

## What happens next?

> One option for the public Slack would have been to just leaving it running in parallel to the forums, but that would leave Slack users in limbo. Instead, we plan to close the Slack in favour of the PostHog community forum. You don't need to create a new account to join the forum - you can just log in with your normal PostHog Cloud account. 

Reviewer 3: we will release this post after the auth merge https://github.com/PostHog/posthog.com/issues/5847

> One option for the public Slack would have been to just leaving it running in parallel to the forums, but that would leave Slack users in limbo. Instead, we plan to close the Slack in favour of the PostHog community forum. You don't need to create a new account to join the forum - you can just log in with your normal PostHog Cloud account. 

Reviewer 4: *favor

Author: ```suggestion
One option for the public Slack would have been to just leaving it running in parallel to the forums, but that would leave Slack users in limbo. Instead, we plan to close the Slack in favor of the PostHog community forum. You don't need to create a new account to join the forum - you can just log in with your normal PostHog Cloud account. 
```

---

> date: 2024-11-01

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
date: 2024-01-11
```

title: "We're building a better PostHog community by closing our public Slack"
rootPage: /blog

> sidebar: Blog
> showTitle: true
> hideAnchor: true

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```

Not needed anymore

> category: Product updates

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
category: PostHog news
```

author: ["joe-martin"]
featuredImage: ../images/blog/posthog-company-culture-blog.png
featuredImageType: full
---

One of the great things about being open source is that we’ve grown a vibrant community around the project. Since launch we’ve accepted code from over 500 contributors and swapped ideas with thousands of users in our public Slack group. 

> Now though, we’re closing that Slack group to create a better, stronger, and more helpful PostHog community [here on our site](/questions). In this post, I’ll explain why we’re doing this, and what comes next. 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Now, though, we’re closing that Slack group in favor of creating a better, more scalable, and helpful PostHog community [here on our site](/questions). In this post, I’ll explain why we’re doing this, and what comes next. 
```

> **Tl;dr:** We’re closing the Slack group on XX/XX/XX and inviting members to join us on the [PostHog community forum](/questions) instead, where over 1,500 users have already started asking questions. This decision only impacts the public Slack group, not the private Slack channels for users who pay for additional support.

## Why we're changing the way we do community

> PostHog has grown incredibly fast but over the last four years, and throughout that time the public Slack group has been the central hub of our community. It's been a place where we chat to users, listen to feature requests, answer questions, and solicit feedback. 

Author: ```suggestion
PostHog has grown incredibly fast over the last four years, and throughout that time the public Slack group has been the central hub of our community. It's been a place where we chat to users, listen to feature requests, answer questions, and solicit feedback. 
```

> However, with over 5,000 members in the community, it's become hard to keep up with the conversations. Messages quickly disappear from the chat history, it is disconnected from our main support flow, and content isn't indexed by Google, which makes it a particularly bad platform for providing support. 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
However, with over 5,000 members in the community, it's become clear we've outgrown Slack as a platform. Messages quickly disappear from the chat history, it is disconnected from our main support flow, and useful solutions aren't searchable on our site or via Google. 
```

> We've explored a few things to fix this, including joining a paid plan ($7.25+ per user, per month) and [building our own AI bot](/blog/aruba-hackathon#maxai-our-friendly-posthog-support-ai), but we don't think the problem is solvable within Slack. Earlier this year we realized a new approach was needed.

Author: ```suggestion
We've explored a few things to fix this, including joining a paid plan ($7.25+ per user, per month) and [building our own AI bot](/blog/aruba-hackathon#maxai-our-friendly-posthog-support-ai), but earlier this year we realized a new approach was needed.
```

So, we decided to build something better. 

## Introducing the PostHog community forum

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/blqgFrIaWY0?si=gSj1eNrGQ8l0ANlw" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Rather than using an off-the-shelf forum platform, like vBulletin or phpBB, we decided to create our own forum using Strapi as a headless CMS. The forum has already been live for several months while we worked out the kinks, and has over 1,500 active members. 

The new forums provide a dedicated area where you can post questions for both the PostHog team and the wider community. Anyone can respond, and answers can be selected as the preferred solution to help guide other users too. All of this content lives permanently on our website and is visible to search engines, which is enough on its own to make the forums a better place for seeking community support.

> We've also integrated the forum into other parts of the site. You can, for example, post questions when browsing  the PostHog docs, and we'll automatically aggregate questions into sortable categories. This is especially helpful if you're trying something new and an existing explanation isn't clear enough for you. 

Author: ```suggestion
We've also integrated the forum into other parts of the site. You can, for example, post questions when browsing the PostHog docs, and we'll automatically aggregate questions into sortable categories. This is especially helpful if you're trying something new and an existing explanation isn't clear enough for you. 
```

> Since soft-launching the community a few months ago we've made several other improvements, such as adding comment threads to articles on our blog (including this one), and adding AMA functionality to community profiles. 

Author: ```suggestion
Community profiles are also a big part of the forum; a place where you can add info, track discussions you're involved in, and display awards earned through the community. You can even open your profile to function as an Ask Me Anything (AMA) - something [James](https://posthog.com/community/profiles/71), [Cory](https://posthog.com/community/profiles/2), and [myself](https://posthog.com/community/profiles/59) have already done.

> Ready to join the community? You can now [login using your PostHog account](/questions)! 
```

> Community profiles are also a big part of the forum; a place where you can add info, track discussions you're involved in, and display awards earned through the community. You can even open your profile to function as an Ask Me Anything (AMA) - something [James](https://posthog.com/community/profiles/71), [Cory](https://posthog.com/community/profiles/2), and [myself](https://posthog.com/community/profiles/59) have already done.

Author: ```suggestion
Profiles are also a big part of the forum; a place where you can add info, track discussions you're involved in, and display awards earned through the community. You can even open your profile to function as an Ask Me Anything (AMA) - something [James](https://posthog.com/community/profiles/71), [Cory](https://posthog.com/community/profiles/2), and [myself](https://posthog.com/community/profiles/59) have already done.
```

> Ready to join the community? You can now [login using your PostHog account](/questions)! 

> 
> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

> All of this is just for starters, however. Right now, for example, you need to create a dedicated PostHog.com account to be post, but [we plan to unify](https://github.com/PostHog/posthog.com/issues/5847) that with PostHog Cloud logins. We also plan to add the ability to vote on questions to give them more (or less!) visibility. If you have ideas for how else we can improve the community, we'd love to hear them in the comment thread!

Author: ```suggestion
```

## What happens next?

> One option for the public Slack would have been to just leaving it running in parallel to the forums, but that would leave Slack users in limbo. Instead, we plan to close the Slack in favour of the PostHog community forum.

Author: ```suggestion
One option for the public Slack would have been to just leaving it running in parallel to the forums, but that would leave Slack users in limbo. Instead, we plan to close the Slack in favour of the PostHog community forum. You don't need to create a new account to join the forum - you can just log in with your normal PostHog Cloud account. 
```

> We think the PostHog forums offers a much better community experience on all fronts. It's more permanent, more accessible, and more deeply integrated into the other tools we use and the way we work. You can, of course, continue to use in-app options for reporting bugs and asking for support - and we'll continue to offer private Slack channels for users paying for dedicated support - but the forum is already a far better place for many community discussions. 

Author: ```suggestion
```

> One option for the public Slack would have been to just leaving it running in parallel to the forums, but that would leave Slack users in limbo. Instead, we plan to close the Slack completely. 

Author: ```suggestion
One option for the public Slack would have been to just leaving it running in parallel to the forums, but that would leave Slack users in limbo. Instead, we plan to close the Slack in favour of the PostHog community forum.
```
